+++
title = "Bike-sharing systems and congestion: Evidence from US cities"
date = 2017-11-01

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["**Mingshu Wang**", "Xiaolu Zhou"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Journal of Transport Geography*, *65*, 147-154"
publication_short = "*Journal of Transport Geography*, *65*, 147-154"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "In the past decades, there has been a resurgence of public bike-sharing systems (BSSs). While it is claimed that social and environmental benefits are associated with the implementation of BSSs, few empirical studies have investigated the actual congestion reduction effect of BSSs on cities. To fill such gap, this paper aims to examine whether the launch of BSSs can reduce citywide congestion. With a panel dataset of 96 urban areas in the US from 2005 to 2014, we employed a difference-in-differences model with two-way fixed-effects panel regression. The results suggested that the introduction of BSSs shows a significant mixed impact on congestion in general: Larger cities get better off but richer cities get worse off. Such results are consistent with both subsample regression with propensity score matching and different congestion measures. Post-hoc analysis reveals that BSSs have a significant positive effect on reducing rush-hour congestion. Finally, implications, limitations, and future work directions are offered."

abstract_short = "This paper examines whether the launch of BSSs can reduce citywide congestion. With a panel dataset of 96 urban areas in the US from 2005 to 2014, we employed a difference-in-differences model with two-way fixed-effects panel regression."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.

projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_source = "https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0966692317302715"
#url_pdf = "https://outlookuga-my.sharepoint.com/:b:/g/personal/mswang_uga_edu/EeJHcF1XD5FIln212fW1_ugBZYeebNv6hsLT_UVl5cxdAA"
#url_preprint = "#"
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_project = "#"
#url_slides = "#"
#url_video = "#"
#url_poster = "#"
#url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "headers/JTG2017.jpg"
#caption = "Bike-sharing systems (BSSs) in US urban areas, 2005–2014."

+++

