+++
title = "Where we are in fighting against the COVID-19"
date = 2020-05-01

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Xuebin Wei", "**Mingshu Wang** (Corresponding Author)", "Menno-Jan Kraak"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = " *Environment and Planning A: Economy and Space*, *52*(8), 1483-1486"
publication_short = " *Environment and Planning A: Economy and Space*, *52*(8), 1483-1486"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization announced the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) as a pandemic. Despite an increasing number of international attempts using maps to present and communicate COVID-19-related information in different organizations, most map products have only used the presentation function of maps. Against this backdrop, we offer an automatically daily-updated, color-blind-friendly, Tableau-based interactive dashboard to demon- strate where and how different countries are fighting against COVID-19. The dashboard allows users to specify countries they want to compare and aggregate relevant data on a daily, weekly, or monthly basis."

abstract_short = "On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization announced the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) as a pandemic. Despite an increasing number of international attempts using maps to present and communicate COVID-19-related information in different organizations, most map products have only used the presentation function of maps. Against this backdrop, we offer an automatically daily-updated, color-blind-friendly, Tableau-based interactive dashboard to demon- strate where and how different countries are fighting against COVID-19. The dashboard allows users to specify countries they want to compare and aggregate relevant data on a daily, weekly, or monthly basis."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.

projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_source = "https://doi.org/10.1177/0308518X20931515"
url_pdf = "https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1177/0308518X20931515"
#url_preprint = "#"
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_project = "#"
#url_slides = "#"
#url_video = "#"
#url_poster = "#"
#url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "headers/JTG2017.jpg"
#caption = "Bike-sharing systems (BSSs) in US urban areas, 2005–2014."

+++

