+++
title = "Regional integration in the Horn of Africa through the lens of inter-city connectivity"
date = 2022-07-06

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["**Mingshu Wang**", "Ben Derudder", "Charles Kunaka", "Xingjian Liu"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Applied Geography*, *145*, 102754"
publication_short = "*Applied Geography*, *145*, 102754"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Urban challenges are increasingly framed in the context of broader objectives of socio-economic development and macro-regional evolutions. Cities and the myriad networks in which they are embedded have thus been placed at the center of regional integration agendas. This paper benchmarks contemporary regional integration levels in the Horn of Africa by examining its cities' connectivities in transport networks. To this end, we specify a composite network consisting of air/train/road connectivity and analyze cities' eigenvector and betweenness centralities within these networks. We find that the importance of national spaces for inter-city connectivity is much more evident in the Horn of Africa than in other parts of the world, which is also visible in the peripheralization of cities in borderlands. We argue that the region's connectivity needs to be understood from a multiscalar and multimodal perspective and provide a baseline against which the impact of future interventions aimed at enhancing city connectivity/regional integration can be examined."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.

projects = []

# Links (optional).
#url_source = "#"
url_pdf = "https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apgeog.2022.102754"
#url_preprint = "#"
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_project = "#"
#url_slides = "#"
#url_video = "#"
#url_poster = "#"
#url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
# image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
# caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

