+++
title = "Urban form, shrinking cities, and residential carbon emissions: Evidence from Chinese city-regions"
date = 2020-02-01

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Xingjian Liu","**Mingshu Wang**", "Wei Qiang","Kang Wu","Xiaomi Wang"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = " *Applied Energy*, *261*, 114409"
publication_short = " *Applied Energy*, *261*, 114409"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "This paper analyzes the relationship between urban form, shrinking cities, and residential carbon emissions, based on information collected for prefectural-level and above Chinese cities for the years of 2005, 2010, and 2015. After controlling for a number of urban form and socioeconomic variables (e.g., size, compactness, and polycentricity), this paper pays attention to residential carbon emissions in ‘shrinking cities’, which have experienced population loss and are a recent urban phenomenon in China. Everything else being equal, shrinking cities tend to be associated with less energy efficient than their growing counterparts, suggesting that these cities may not only be ‘battling’ with shrinking populations and economies but also need to consider the environmental issues."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.

projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_source = "https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306261919320963"
url_pdf = "https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306261919320963/pdfft?isDTMRedir=true&download=true"
#url_preprint = "#"
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_project = "#"
#url_slides = "#"
#url_video = "#"
#url_poster = "#"
#url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
# image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
# caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

