+++
title = "What geomorphological characteristics accommodate emergent herbaceous wetlands in North Georgia? – geographic knowledge discovery from the NLCD and DEM"
date = 2014-07-01

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["**Mingshu Wang**", "Lan Mu"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = " *Annals of GIS*, *20*(3), 169-180"
publication_short = " *Annals of GIS*, *20*(3), 169-180"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "When we examine the National Land Cover Database 2006 (NLCD 2006) in a small scale, we find out that there are only 4.5 ha (50 pixels) of emergent herbaceous wetlands in Athens-Clarke County, Georgia. In order to testify that it is not simply due to mapping error or uncertainty, we propose a geographic knowledge discovery (GKD) process based on NLCD. The GKD process consists of data preparation, data preprocessing, feature extraction and knowledge consolidation. A case study ?What geomorphological characteristics accommodate emergent herbaceous wetlands in North Georgia? is presented to illustrate the process. Geomorphological characteristics refer to digital elevation model (DEM) and eight DEM-derived variables, which are proxies to geomorphological conditions. Geographic data are inherently spatial dependent and heterogeneous and such properties are considered in data preparation. In feature extraction, the goal of the study and the nature of the data are taken into consideration to select a suitable algorithm. In knowledge consolidation, three steps of validation ? with statistics, cross-validation and field survey ? are presented. The proposed methods can be extended to GKD from NLCD for other purposes. The GKD results testify that the small area of emergent herbaceous wetlands in Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, is not due to mapping error or uncertainty. The case study also proves that See5 algorithm performs very well to extract the learned knowledge. The procedure that we propose with NLCD can be applied to other environmental monitoring purpose."

abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.

projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_source = "http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/19475683.2014.942364"
url_pdf = "https://outlookuga-my.sharepoint.com/:b:/g/personal/mswang_uga_edu/EagJji551GlHlMuKQJi2OUQBtTbwJsMpJTrcFY6KeZjh7g"
#url_preprint = "#"
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_project = "#"
#url_slides = "#"
#url_video = "#"
#url_poster = "#"
#url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "headers/JTG2017.jpg"
#caption = "Bike-sharing systems (BSSs) in US urban areas, 2005–2014."

+++

