+++
title = "Spatial disparities of Uber accessibility: An exploratory analysis in Atlanta, USA"
date = 2018-01-01

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["**Mingshu Wang**", "Lan Mu"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = " *Computers, Environment and Urban Systems*, *67*, 169-175"
publication_short = " *Computers, Environment and Urban Systems*, *67*, 169-175"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Inequality of accessibility in transportation systems is a constant concern, which is intensified by the transportation economization process and the digital divide. How should the accessibility of crowdsourced transportation is measured and understood? Without any prior assumption, this paper openly explores spatial disparities of accessibility in the city of Atlanta, USA using both the UberX (the most popular Uber product) and the UberBLACK (the premium Uber product) data. Accessibility is measured by both the expectation and variability of Uber wait time. With spatial autoregressive models, we find that after controlling for other socioeconomic factors, wealth and race do not have significant associations with Uber accessibility. Additionally, higher road network density, population density, and less commuting time to work correlate with greater Uber accessibility. More public transport stops are related to better accessibility of UberX but worse accessibility of UberBLACK. Finally, implications for policy-makers are provided."
abstract_short = "This paper explores spatial disparities of accessibility in the city of Atlanta, USA using both the UberX (the most popular Uber product) and the UberBLACK (the premium Uber product) data."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.

projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_source = "http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0198971517300716"
url_pdf = "https://outlookuga-my.sharepoint.com/:b:/g/personal/mswang_uga_edu/Ee7026WaDV9OhViT8Y_p4FMBFQzn4-jHmBSbxu_BuZ8DdA"
#url_preprint = "#"
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_project = "#"
#url_slides = "#"
#url_video = "#"
#url_poster = "#"
#url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
# image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
# caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

