+++
title = "Polycentric urban development and economic productivity in China: A multiscalar analysis"
date = 2019-08-01

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["**Mingshu Wang**", "Ben Derudder","Xingjian Liu"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Environment and Planning A: Economy and Space*, *51*(8), 1622-1643."
publication_short = "*Environment and Planning A: Economy and Space*, *51*(8), 1622-1643."

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "‘Urban polycentricity’ has become both a conceptual framework capturing emerging empirical realities and a spatial planning vision adopted in cities across Europe, USA, and, recently, also China. Despite the blossoming academic literature on polycentricity, only limited attempts have been made to explore whether and how polycentric urban development at different spatial scales affects the urban economy. In this paper, we empirically analyse whether and how urban polycentricity at different spatial scales in China is associated with urban economic performance. To this end, we extend the Cobb–Douglas production function and include measures of both inter-urban and intra-urban polycentricity to explain differences in labour productivity. The analysis links intra-urban monocentricity and inter-urban polycentricity with higher levels of labour productivity. In addition, the analysis points to an agglomeration spillover effect, as well as a potential weak positive interaction effect between intra- and inter-urban polycentricity. The paper concludes with policy implications for China’s spatial development."

abstract_short = "This paper analyses whether and how urban polycentricity at different spatial scales in China is associated with urban economic performance."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.

projects = ["content/project/polycentricity"]

# Links (optional).
url_source = "https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0308518X19866836"
url_pdf = "https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Mingshu_Wang/publication/334946875_Polycentric_urban_development_and_economic_productivity_in_China_A_multiscalar_analysis/links/5d4dd42092851cd046afdb27/Polycentric-urban-development-and-economic-productivity-in-China-A-multiscalar-analysis.pdf"
#url_preprint = "#"
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_project = "#"
#url_slides = "#"
#url_video = "#"
#url_poster = "#"
#url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "headers/JTG2017.jpg"
#caption = "Bike-sharing systems (BSSs) in US urban areas, 2005–2014."

+++

