+++
title = "Polycentric urban development in China: A multi-scale analysis"
date = 2017-02-06

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Xingjian Liu","Ben Derudder","**Mingshu Wang**"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = " *Environment and Planning B: Urban Analytics and City Science*, [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1177/2399808317690155)"
publication_short = " *Environment and Planning B: Urban Analytics and City Science*, [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1177/2399808317690155)"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "This article reports a multi-scale analysis of polycentric urban development in 22 Chinese city-regions. Using fine-grained population data, our analysis contrasts polycentric development patterns at multiple geographical scales. We present a typology of Chinese city-regions based on both (1) their inter-city polycentricity and (2) the intra-city polycentricity of the individual cities that comprise these urban regions. Overall, we find only limited levels of association between inter-city and intra-city polycentricity. The Pearl River and Yangtze River Deltas have high levels of inter-city and intra-city polycentricity. Most city-regions in Central and Western China are characterized by a primate urban system and low levels of inter-city polycentricity. We hypothesize the major economic, political, and geographical processes underlying observed patterns."

abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.

projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_source = "http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/2399808317690155"
url_pdf = "https://outlookuga-my.sharepoint.com/:b:/g/personal/mswang_uga_edu/EWXUq7JqKfBPkZPsmZBq9E8BgUHgnfxMW9mQzFW3VGgvkA"
#url_preprint = "#"
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_project = "#"
#url_slides = "#"
#url_video = "#"
#url_poster = "#"
#url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
# image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
# caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

