+++
title = "Predicting customer overall satisfaction: Big data evidence from hotel online textual reviews"
date = 2018-07-01

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Yabing Zhao", "Xun Xu", **Mingshu Wang**"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *International Journal of Hospitality Management*, (In Press). DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhm.2018.03.017"
publication_short = "In *International Journal of Hospitality Management*, (In Press)"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Customer online reviews of hotels have significant business value in the e-commerce and big data era. Online textual reviews have an open-structured form, and the technical side, namely the linguistic attributes of online textual reviews, is still largely under-explored. Using a sample of 127,629 reviews from tripadvisor.com, this study predicts overall customer satisfaction using the technical attributes of online textual reviews and customers’ involvement in the review community. We find that a higher level of subjectivity and readability and a longer length of textual review lead to lower overall customer satisfaction, and a higher level of diversity and sentiment polarity of textual review leads to higher overall customer satisfaction. We also find that customers’ review involvement positively influences their overall satisfaction. We provide implications for hoteliers to better understand customer online review behavior and implement efficient online review management actions to use electronic word of mouth and enhance hotels’ performance."

abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.

projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_source = "https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhm.2018.03.017"
#url_pdf = "#"
#url_preprint = "#"
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_project = "#"
#url_slides = "#"
#url_video = "#"
#url_poster = "#"


# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
# image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
# caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

