+++
title = "A two-level comparison of CO2 emission data in China: Evidence from three gridded data sources"
date = 2017-04-01

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["**Mingshu Wang**", "Bofeng Cai"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = " *Journal of Cleaner Production*, *148*, 194-201"
publication_short = " *Journal of Cleaner Production*, *148*, 194-201"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Carbon dioxide (CO<sub>2</sub>) emissions from fossil-fuel combustion are a global concern, and since 2007, China has become the nation with the highest amount of CO<sub>2</sub> emissions. In order to understand China's carbon science research and reduction policies, it is crucial to benchmark CO<sub>2</sub> emission estimates from different sources at multiple administrative levels. Therefore, this paper firstly compares the Emission Database for Global Atmospheric Research (EDGAR), the Fossil Fuel Data Assimilation System (FFDAS), and the China High Resolution Emission Gridded Data (CHRED) against energy census data from the National Bureau of Statistics of China (NBSC) at the province level. Results revealed that CHRED today's finest resolution and most bottom-up approach of CO<sub>2</sub> emission estimation in China is the most consistent dataset with NBSC among the three (with both Pearson's *R* and Kendall's *tau* of 0.86). Secondly, EDGAR and FFDAS are compared with CHRED at the prefectural level. Finally, empirical models were developed to reconcile EDGAR and FFDAS with CHRED at both province and prefectural levels to facilitate future longitudinal studies of CO<sub>2</sub> emissions in China."

abstract_short = "This paper firstly compares the Emission Database for Global Atmospheric Research (EDGAR), the Fossil Fuel Data Assimilation System (FFDAS), and the China High Resolution Emission Gridded Data (CHRED) against energy census data from the National Bureau of Statistics of China (NBSC) at the province level."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.

projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_source = "https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S095965261730207X"
#url_preprint = "#"
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_project = "#"
#url_slides = "#"
#url_video = "#"
#url_poster = "#"
#url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "headers/JTG2017.jpg"
#caption = "Bike-sharing systems (BSSs) in US urban areas, 2005–2014."

+++

