+++
title = "Exploring the Relationship between Urban Forms and CO<sub>2</sub> Emissions in 104 Chinese Cities"
date = 2017-12-15

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["**Mingshu Wang**", "Marguerite Madden", "Xingjian Liu"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = " *Journal of Urban Planning and Development*, *4*, 04017014"
publication_short = " *Journal of Urban Planning and Development*, *4*, 04017014"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "This study explores the empirical relationship between city-level urban forms and CO2 emissions in 104 Chinese prefectural-level cities. Although the analytical focus is on polycentric urban forms, the analysis has also accounted for population size and land use compactness. CO2 emissions data are aggregated from the Fossil Fuel Data Assimilation System (FFDASv2) data portal. The analysis identifies substantial economies of scale in CO2 with respect to total population. Further, despite a substantial wealth effect on CO2 emissions, cities with more centralized and compact urban forms are associated with lesser emissions, ceteris paribus. Whereas existing analyses of CO2 emissions in Chinese cities have often been limited to a handful of provincial capitals, the analysis covers a larger sample of cities. The paper concludes with spatial planning policy implications."

abstract_short = "This study explores the empirical relationship between city-level urban forms and CO2 emissions in 104 Chinese prefectural-level cities. Although the analytical focus is on polycentric urban forms, the analysis has also accounted for population size and land use compactness."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.

projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_source = "https://ascelibrary.org/doi/abs/10.1061/%28ASCE%29UP.1943-5444.0000400"
#url_preprint = "#"
#url_code = "#"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_project = "#"
#url_slides = "#"
#url_video = "#"
#url_poster = "#"
#url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "headers/JTG2017.jpg"
#caption = "Bike-sharing systems (BSSs) in US urban areas, 2005–2014."

+++

